I am Jan Ward and this is my husband Dan
and we're the primary caregivers for my
mother Layla Crutchfield the husband
died when I was still his chaplain and
when i left the hospice some time later
his wife was diagnosed with terminal
cancer and became a hospice patient
herself my mother spoiled those dogs she
was their mom they were literally her
life when she really started to
deteriorate she expected Jan to give
them the attention that she gave them
and not only was she trying to care for
her mother but was expected to do these
special things that the dogs got all the
time they're actually came a point in
time when they were considering finding
the pets another home I think that would
have been devastating for her my name is
Reverend alena taylor mcmack and i am a
deacon with Hickey Chapel Indian United
Methodist Church here in Tulsa Oklahoma
so I started the pet peace of mind
program back in 2007 because I saw a
need for trying to help patients and
pets stay together during the time that
a terminally ill patient is on hospice
and she said what's going to happen when
i die and i said well what do you think
that's going to happen I said you know
you're gonna go to heaven and you know
we'll see you Sunday she was now you
know what I mean I'm talking about my
dogs and so the hospice brought the dogs
from an adjoining town and then would
take them every day to visit her they
were there the day before she passed
away they were so comforting to her she
knew that her dogs were taken care of
and she really
I could not have done what I done for my
mother and provided the level of care if
I would not have had them and the pet
peace of mind program involved in
helping take care of her dogs one of the
things that I tell our new hospice
coordinators about is how important pets
are two children in the homes of hospice
patients a case in point is a family
with a single mom and her eight-year-old
son and Brady grandpa's been sick and
he's been just sleeping his room all day
and dad was in the hospital doing really
bad and the doctor said hospice is going
to talk to you and I was like oh really
he has like six months later yeah and so
it just feels kind of sad the stress of
being a full-time caregiver that's a lot
for an eight-year-old to manage but
fortunately they have a cat named Lucas
my cat's not like any other cat if I
feel sad then he comes up in my plays
with me and it makes me feel happy again
he just seems to sense that dad's not
feeling well and he's always seems like
he wants to be in there with him and
looking after him in a funny way since I
can't always be here cuz I got school
and then I like how just he goes he goes
in there and just leads with grandpa's
since I can't and so Brady's mother
Ghana was faced with how to care for
this cat that meant so much to her son
he was at an age where he needed to be
neutered and it was something I
definitely had to consider and I was
trying to figure out how i'm getting it
this done if anybody out there knows
what it's like to have a pet they know
that those things are not there that can
be expensive especially when you're on a
strain of budget pet piece of mine came
into the situation and offered to have
the cat neutered and and up to date on
his vaccinations so that they would be
assured that he was healthy so it's been
a huge burden lifted throughout this
time his antics lightened the
you would almost be able to forget for a
while that there was going to be a loss
in that home it'd just be really hard to
live without him hospice patients
unfortunately find themselves having to
deal with everybody else's reaction to
their illness people come to visit them
who are actively grieving and the
patient is put in a position where they
have to be the one to comfort people so
to have someone in their lives who
doesn't respond to that who treats them
the same as they always have who doesn't
care if they're having a good day or a
bad day is a very important spiritual
and emotional resource for a dying
patient what we want to do is help
hospices see that pets are part of the
family we have in mind changing the face
of hospice care in the same way that our
culture has changed so that when people
consider pets important to their
well-being that hospices understand that
and have the resources that they need to
make that happen
this video was brought to you by the
people of the United Methodist Church
through World Service donations